Know what’s going on
--------------------

So how to we get rid of that unaesthetic and unprecise timeout from the
last example? We use the , of course. When connections start and stop,
and when messages are sent and received, are emitted.

    // set up the event subscription on the first server
    eventC := make(chan *p2p.PeerEvent)
    sub_one := srv_one.SubscribeEvents(eventC)

All you have to do is pass a channel to the `SubscribeEvents` method of
the , and you will start receiving them through it.

    // listen for events
    go func() {
        peerevent := <-eventC
        demo.Log.Info("received peerevent", "type", peerevent.Type, "peer", peerevent.Peer)
        quitC <- true
    }()

Then fork before the `AddPeer` call, and listen on the channel for an
event. Of course normally we would check what event it is, what peer it
came from and so on and so forth. In this case, however, we’re not
really doing much, so we know that the event will be of type “add” and
the peer will be the node we’re *not* subscribing to.

    // PeerEventType is the type of peer events emitted by a p2p.Server
    type PeerEventType string

    const (
        // PeerEventTypeAdd is the type of event emitted when a peer is added
        // to a p2p.Server
        PeerEventTypeAdd PeerEventType = "add"

        // PeerEventTypeDrop is the type of event emitted when a peer is
        // dropped from a p2p.Server
        PeerEventTypeDrop PeerEventType = "drop"

        // PeerEventTypeMsgSend is the type of event emitted when a
        // message is successfully sent to a peer
        PeerEventTypeMsgSend PeerEventType = "msgsend"

        // PeerEventTypeMsgSend is the type of event emitted when a
        // message is successfully sent to a peer
        PeerEventTypeMsgRecv PeerEventType = "msgrecv"
    )

    // PeerEvent is an event emitted when peers are either added or dropped from
    // a p2p.Server or when a message is sent or received on a peer connection
    type PeerEvent struct {
        Type    PeerEventType   `json:"type"`
        Peer    discover.NodeID `json:"peer"`
        Error   string          `json:"error,omitempty"`
        MsgCode *uint64         `json:"msg_code,omitempty"`
        MsgSize *uint32         `json:"msg_size,omitempty"`
    }

A quick look in the `peer.go` file in the `p2p` package tells what kind
of we have, and how they’re stuctured.

    // receives when the event is received
    <-quitC

    // inspect the results
    demo.Log.Info("after add", "node one peers", srv_one.Peers(), "node two peers", srv_two.Peers())

    // terminate subscription
    sub_one.Unsubscribe()

When the connection is completed (on the node we’re subscribing to), we
output the logline as before. Don’t feel guilty about terminating the
subscription after just one item. You’ll get your money’s worth later.
